chore(types): normalize typescript configuration locations (#752)
LavaMoat/lavamoat: .config/README.md

# Some Config Files Are Here

> In here, config files some.

Reviewer: Wut?

Also, this suggests we could move more here?

Author: Yes. In fact, I do in #753.

that sentence was bad on purpose. I'll make it less bad.

## TypeScript Configuration

We have three (3) TypeScript configuration files here:

- `tsconfig.workspace.json` - "Base" config for workspaces in this repo.
- `tsconfig.src.json` - Config for files within a workspace's `src/` directory (sources).
- `tsconfig.test.json` Config for files within a workspace's `test/` directory (tests).

In addition, we have a `tsconfig.json` in the workspace (project) root, configured for incremental builds. This file maintains references to `tsconfig.json` files in each workspace which needs types to be checked and/or built.

In addition the root `tsconfig.json` serves as the "default" for files in the repo which do not otherwise have an ancestor `tsconfig.json` file.

### How to Configure a Workspace for TypeScript

> For the talented & gifted, you can skip this and copy the setup in e.g., `packages/aa`.

1. Create a `tsconfig.json` file in the workspace and set its contents to:

   ```json
   {
     "extends": "../../.config/tsconfig.workspace.json",
     "references": [
       { "path": "./src/tsconfig.json" },
       { "path": "./test/tsconfig.json" }
     ]
   }
   ```

>    If you don't want to typecheck your tests, omit the second object in the `references` array.

Reviewer: I do have mixed feelings about typechecking tests. Mostly because I worry it might get in the way. Happy to give it a spin and push back if it does.

Author: It can get in the way, especially when straying off of the happy path.  It may or may not be worth it.  Generally, I think it is.

   This file should only contain references to one or more other configuration files, and is not itself responsible for controlling input/output.

2. Create a `src/tsconfig.json` file in the workspace and set its contents to:

   ```json
   {
     "extends": "../../../.config/tsconfig.src.json",
     "compilerOptions": {
       "outDir": "../types"
     },
     "include": ["."]
   }
   ```

>    This file controls how and where `tsc` emits declarations; our convention is to dump them all in `types/`--which Git ignores--but `npm` will publish otherwise (see step 6).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This file controls how and where `tsc` emits declarations; our convention is to dump them all in `types/`. We also want to publish these types along with our packages (see step 6).
```

>    `tsconfig.src.json` contains `checkJs: true`; `tsc` will expect _all_ `.js` files to be well-typed. If that's a problem (it probably is), override the value to `false` and add `// @ts-check` to the top of each file needing typechecking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `tsconfig.src.json` contains `checkJs: true`; `tsc` will expect _all_ `.js` files to be well-typed. If that's not applicable to the package you're setting up, override the value to `false` and add `// @ts-check` to the top of each file needing typechecking. 
```

>    If you are a glutton for punishment, add `strict: true` to this config file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you are a glutton for punishment, add `strict: true` to this config file. It's not the default for this repository tho.
```

3. If you are typechecking your tests, create a `test/tsconfig.json` file in the workspace and set its contents to:

   ```json
   {
     "extends": "../../../.config/tsconfig.test.json",
     "include": ["."],
     "references": [{ "path": "../src/tsconfig.json" }]
   }
   ```

   You may need to omit e.g., test fixtures; you can use the `exclude` prop for this. `tsc` will not build declarations from files in `test`.

4. Add a `types` prop in your workspace's `package.json` pointing to the declaration file that corresponds to your entry point. Generally this is `types/index.d.ts`.
   > If your entry point is not in `src/`, you will need to add `"rootDir": ".."` to `src/tsconfig.json`'s `compilerOptions`, then add `../index.js` (or whatever it is) to the `includes` property.
5. _If you have an `exports` field_, [read this](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/modules/reference.html#packagejson-exports) and do that.

> 6. Add `types`, `!tsconfig.json` and `!*.tsbuildinfo` to the `files` prop of your `package.json`. If it doesn't exist, create it, and add whatever other files you need to put in the published package. Check your work with `npm pack --dry-run`.

Reviewer: what are *.tsbuildinfo and why do we generate them?

If our tsconfig was not extending a bunch of stuff that won't end up in the tarball anyway, I'd be voting for keeping it in the tarball so people can check which typescript we've been using out of the many possible permutations. (is the community at large getting any closer to settling on one?)

Author: `tsbuildinfo` files are for TS' incremental builds.  When you have a monorepo with a bunch of `tsconfig.json`'s laying about, and they have interdependencies, TS creates these files so it knows what it does/doesn't need to recompile.

Author: re: shipping `tsconfig.json`, I'm not sure how that would help consumers.  It doesn't have any impact on how TS consumes our packages.  Further, since we're depending on e.g., `@tsconfig/node16`, it wouldn't work anyway w/o adding that package as a prod dep.
